Experimental paradigm
The experiment comprised 5 blocks and a practice block (for summary see Table 1 below) and the total run time was around 45 minutes. At the beginning of each block, participants were informed of the task requirements verbally and were reminded via on-screen instructions prior to the first trial. In the practice block, participants were presented with 18 trials at an ‘easily discriminable’ luminance (no feedback was provided) that resulted in near 100% accuracy for every participant. Block 1 utilised the QUEST staircase procedure (see above) in which one letter was randomly selected on each trial (50 trials in total) and the task difficulty (in the form of the luminance  level) was titrated to achieve 70% (+/- 10%) accuracy using a 6-alternative-forced-choices method (i.e., “which letter did you see?”). The luminance level determined by the end of this block was used for all letter stimuli in the remaining blocks.

In Block 2 there were 48 zero-noise trials that were used to obtain the participant’s accuracy and response bias (or criterion, see below). In this block, 80% of the trials were a consonant with an equal proportion of each letter. We reasoned here that participants would be biased towards responding with the more common consonant as has been shown in the past (Shanks, 2007; MacMillan & Creelman, 2005). Participants were not informed of the 80/20 consonant/vowel base rate. After Block 2 concluded, we examined the participant’s criterion to determine whether they were more biased toward responding with a consonant or a vowel. 

In Block 3, we manipulated each participant’s bias from Block 2 by switching the 80/20 proportion of letters toward their preferred letter category to determine whether we could enhance this bias. For example, an individual with a bias towards responding with a vowel, despite only being present 20% of the time in Block 2 would then be presented with  80% vowel trials in the subsequent blocks. For Block 3, the same conditions were repeated as Block 2, except that we informed participants that the trials would be presented with a 80/20 (or 20/80) consonant to vowel ratio prior to commencing. Thus, after Block 3, we obtained a measure of accuracy and the response criterion given the knowledge of uneven base rates. The criterion from this block was used to exclude participants (N = 6) who did not show a bias (of any size) toward the frequent stimuli.

In Block 4 and 5, we added the dynamic Gaussian noise at six possible non-zero levels. To ensure our stimulus presentation conditions were relative to a no noise baseline condition within the same block, we additionally included a zero-noise condition. Block 4 contained 240 trials (30 trials at each noise level, randomized order) with an 80/20 split of consonant/vowels or vowels/consonants (depending on the participant’s bias determined in Block 2). Participants were informed of the uneven base rates in this block. Finally, Block 5 was a repeat of Block 4 to increase the number of trials per noise level to 60. 
